Documentation: How to contribute (#294)
SEKOIA-IO/intake-formats: doc/smart-descriptions.md

# Smart-descriptions

Event can be hard to read as a raw data. To make easier the visualization of events and their understanding, smart-descriptions help to display important information to the user.

## Organization

Smart-descriptions are defined in the directory `_meta/smart-descriptions.json` in the format. The document is written in [JSON](https://json.org) dialect.

The root element of the document is a JSON-array. This array contains a set of smart-descriptions.

## Smart-description

A smart description consists of:
- The value (manatory): a sentence that will display information from the [structured event](structured_event.md).

>   This sentence contains placeholders (delimited with curly-braces). Each placeholder encompass a path (dot-notation); the path indicate the location, in the structured event, of the value to used to replace the placeholder in the description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This sentence contains placeholders (delimited with curly-braces). Each placeholder encompasses a path (dot-notation); the path indicates the location of the value in the structured event that is used to replace the placeholder in the description.
```
